## Adventure Time!

Write an adventure game. We'll provide most of the program. You will mostly
make modification and some additions.

This project is designed to be done by two people working in parallel, then
combining your results into one finished product. (Hereafter the two partners
are called Person A and Person B.) But you will combine your work to hand in a
single report for your group.

The project begins with two exercises that everyone should do; these exercises
do not require new programming, but rather familiarize you with the overall
structure of the program as we've provided it. After that, each person has
separate exercises. There is one final exercise for everyone that requires the
two partners' work to be combined. (Therefore, you should probably keep notes
about all of the procedures that you've modified during the project, so you
can notice the ones that both partners modified independently.)

This is a two-week project. Once you finish all of the exercises for the
entire project, your group should make one submission (not one per person)
including your modified adv.scm program with the modifications highlighted,
and a transcript of the testing of your work. Indicate somewhere in your
submission which of you is person A and which is person B. Make this is very
prominent and easy to find!

## Scoring

Each person works on nine problems. Three of these (numbers 1, 2, and 9) are
common to the two partners; the others are separate. You hand in a single
solution to each problem. Both partners get the points awarded to the group
for problems 1, 2, and 9; each person gets the points for his or her own
problems 3 through 8. This means that your score for the project is mostly
based on your individual work but also relies partly on the other member of
your group. For the first two problems, you could get away with letting your
partner do the work, but you shouldn't because those problems are necessary to
help you understand the structure of the entire project. Problem 9 requires
that both partners have already done their separate work, and meet together to
understand each other's solutions, so probably nobody will get credit for it
unless both have done their jobs.

If you can't find a partner and are working alone, you will do both Person A
and B's parts and your grade will be their average.

## Acknowledgement

This assignment is loosely based on an MIT homework assignment in their
version of this course. But since this is Berkeley we've changed it to be
politically correct; instead of killing each other, the characters go around
eating gourmet food all the time. N.B.: Unless you are a diehard yuppie you
may feel that eating gourmet food does not express appropriate sensitivity to
the plight of the homeless. But it's a start.

In this laboratory assignment, we will be exploring two key ideas: the
simulation of a world in which objects are characterized by a set of state
variables, and the use of message passing as a programming technique for
modularizing worlds in which objects interact.

## Notes on Working Together

Here are some suggestions to share your work with your partner:

  * [gitHub](https://github.com/). Solid, but long set-up time. Try [here](http://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1) for a taste
  * DropBox. Easy to set-up. Be careful with overwriting your partner's file
  * GoogleDocs. Easy to set-up. Less likely to overwrite code
  * E-Mail! Nominate one person. Send all of your code to him/her and he/she will be the one responsible for merging them together
  * Other

