Note that all links in the following paragraphs are completely optional
reading and are included solely for the interest and amusement of the reader.

There isn't any one right answer. Computer Science means a lot of different
things to a lot of different people. For some it means building [a web
application that allows you to connect and keep up with your
friends](https://joindiaspora.com/). For others, it means engineering [self-
driving cars](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_driverless_car). For yet
others, it means [lots and lots of
math](http://www.cs.princeton.edu/theory/index.php/Compbook/Draft). And [so
on](http://techcrunch.com/2013/07/11/raspberry-pi-microwave-hack/).

But here is a working definition: Computer Science answers the following
questions:

  1. What can we compute?
  2. How do we compute it?
  3. What can we do with that?

In this sense, Computer Science isn't about computers (that's a part of
Electrical Engineering), and it isn't really a science at the core (scientists
discover, we invent.)

Computer Scientists are like engineers: we [build cool
stuff](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gy5g33S0Gzo), and we [solve
problems](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pancake_sorting).

## Complexity and Abstraction

All interesting problems in Computer Science are inherently complex. For
example, your web browser, the one you're using to view this page, has a lot
of moving parts: when you type in a URL, the browser has to figure out which
server to go to, ask the server to give it the webpage you're looking for,
download the webpage, understand the webpage, and display it on your screen.
Each of these steps has their own parts and so on. How do we make sure all of
this works? In one word? Abstraction!

Abstraction is the ability to treat a complicated process as one whole unit,
and use that unit in an even more complex process. We already use
abstraction in our daily lives. For example, when you think of a celebrity,
let's say Neil Patrick Harris:

![Neil Patrick Harris](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/7/7d/Barney_Stinson.jpg)

One typically thinks "Hey, it's Neil!", not "Hey, it's a complicated chemical
process involving water, protein, connective tissue, fats, apatite,
carbohydrates, and DNA!"

This idea of Abstraction is wonderful, because now instead of keeping track of
the chemical reactions going on in this organism's metabolism, we can enjoy
him playing Barney on an episode of _How I Met your Mother_.

Another example of Abstraction is the description above of how a web browser
works. I left out all the messy details about exactly how you would type on a
keyboard which sends electronic signals to the motherboard when you type in a
URL: how the computer recognizes that you've hit "Enter" and that now it's
time to run the code that finds out the server to contact, the algorithms
involved in finding that server in a network of thousands of servers, and so
on.

CS 61AS is about the different ways we abstract complexity using programming,
and how that allows us to solve different, complicated problems.

## Takeaways

Here are some things covered in this subsection:

  1. Some logistics on how this course works
  2. Computer scientists are engineers!
  3. Computer programs are inherently complex, and use a concept called abstraction.

Okay, let's move on to the next section!
